start.
Okay, it's a minute past 7 o' and
um get ready for public hearing. Um
we'll call to order and we are here to
hear an application from Michael Heer 71
road. I got my glasses so
I almost memory on this here. Um and the
public hearing will be held in person at
Unity Road in town hall 7 school and
over the applicant is seeking relief
from a denial of a zoning permit by the
inter zoning agent. Specifically, the
applicant was denied a zoning permit to
construct a twocar garage intended for
storage of landscaping equipment, a dump
truck and excavator attached to a
dwelling and to an existing onecar
garage that is proposed to be converted
to a workspace. Presentation by the
applicant. um of course with comments
and questions from all of us. Um so you
will gentlemen here and you have the
floor. Sure. Um now the only thing that
I'm really concerned about here is I was
not aware of half of the stipulations
and half of the correspondence that the
lawyer said that I was facing. Uh I was
not cing in any sort of conversation
with the lawyer. Uh I was given any sort
of correspondence um until it was put on
the website about two weeks ago. Um so I
didn't I didn't know that I had to put
in a full-blown zoning permit like um an
A2 a whole new A2. I thought I had to
put in a
proposed idea on top of my Hue that I
have for my property which is still
existing. Um, I was told by the
prior zoning agent that that would be
okay for this part of the stage because
he think it's necessary to go to the
building department to actually get all
the A2 and and the topography and all
that stuff laid out because it's like
$5,000 to get it all out. It just
doesn't seem at this stage necessary. So
said,
um, another thing that I found was kind
of overreading over the, uh,
correspondence of what the lawyer stated
was that the garage was a, let's see
here, he was saying that it was a, 1650
foot square foot first floor, second
floor. Well, seeing that it is not
living space and second floor is attic,
atticts are not counted as living space
or as um square footage in the building.
Um just as the same as my attic, my
house is not. Uh but my basement or
second floor of my house, which is a
living
space, can be perceived that way. It is
on the website. It's 2900 ft. So take it
out. I guess, you know, it's some people
say it's 2,900 ft, some people say my
house is
1,624. It really is based off how you
take it. Um, he he thought saying that
the garage was too big essentially for
the property. Um, and I checked over and
over and over and over again. Um, I
thought I saw it maybe in older
publications of the zone laws, but I
couldn't find it in the new 2023 edition
stating that had to be 70 70% or 80% or
whatever of the existing
um principal property had to be that up
to that square
footage. If you could find that, that
would be excellent. I've been talking
about talking with my my designer about
trying to get it under obviously that
legal limit so I wouldn't have a
problem. But can you state that again?
So So most um most towns have a square
footage that you have to be with under
for a accessory building. You can't have
like a 4,000 foot accessory building
with a 2,000 foot house unless it's like
a bar. to the code and I thought I saw
something maybe it was a different time
maybe it was from older publications
saying they would have had like a page
but I couldn't find anything on the new
publications stating
this tried to find the whole thing I
couldn't find it so there shouldn't be
an issue with size another issue is
they're standing as an accessory
building part of the principal property.
It's connected. So the building is
connected by
resides to my house and also the
existing garage. It's connecting both
all together which mean all of it now
are the principal structure. No
accessory buildings anymore on the
property. nothing, which would
completely defeat that accessory
building issue that the lake area has.
Um, and I I understand, you know, you're
only allowed two-car
garage. That's why I'm removing the
twocar garage that I have now, using it
solely as like, you know, I have a lathe
and welders, this kind of stuff, but you
can't fit cars in all that junk. That's
right now outside and will rain kind of
thing will be in that garage. I won't be
able to fit cars in there. It's It's
literally to help me
keep my items which I'm sure nobody
wants to see out in the middle of a yard
or have to be inside. We just
had three bikes stolen right down the
road here.
I don't want that stuff happening. My
property, you know, I have about
$100,000 stuff outside. I really don't
want that stuff
sold.
Um, keep it
safe from other people soon.
Um, the property would increase in
value, revenue, passively increase to
you guys. Um, and all my neighbors don't
mind their properties are worth more
because they're going to eliminate
selling would be a bad idea.
Okay.
Um as far as the uh A2 survey is
concerned, uh you saw my email that I
responded to that and um
that what were presented um should be
enough information for the board in my
opinion for the board to render an
important decision.
We can we can bring that up right
now
like the previous um the previous
officer had me draw literally said put
my A2 my
current draw like put it out the
window we should we should go through
and make sure
Oh
Yeah, I if um if something is being
shown I can't see it. Um
see what share you should be. Yeah.
Okay, I can see it now. Yeah,
yeah, you know, I don't want to
interrupt Mr.
Heckler's presentation as the appellent
he has the right to go first but um I
wanted to just explain a way
that's trying to turn
Yeah turned everything bottom corner
yeah this is all the way up it's all the
way up it is all the way up
I can see it just try to speak up a
little bit for some reason it's really
low on the
volume even though ours is all the way
Okay. So, can you hear me? Okay. Now,
it's a little late, but we'll listen
hard. I think we we need just time out
here for Michael. Okay. Alan Curo is
um representing or assisting me holding
my hand through
this hearing process. He's
a
within Sage. Do I have that correct,
Alan? Yes.
Um yeah, forgive me. I wanted to
um I I wanted to make a a brief
presentation first
um before we got started. Uh
normally I'm I'm subbing for Mark Brance
tonight. Mark Brance sends his sends his
regards and his regrets. he was
otherwise
um otherwise detained tonight.
Um and normally we represent the town.
However, in this case, because what
we're doing here, this is a really a
quasi judicial proceeding where the ZBA
is hearing an appeal of a denied
application. So in this in this instance
the ZBA is acting as an adjudicator and
under these circumstances
um the what who I'm representing is the
the zoning agent Wayne Cassace. So uh I
can't really provide legal advice
tonight to the ZBA. I suppose I can
answer a procedural question, but but I
can't act tonight as the as the ZBA's
lawyer.
We understand that and we had that
conversation earlier. Okay. Very good. I
just I just wanted to make sure it was
clear,
right? But we could ask you questions if
we had to. Yeah. Well, a procedural one.
I can't give you legal advice. Legal
advice. I understand that. Yeah. I had
that conversation uh with Wayne and Eric
and we were offered the opportunity to
bring in our own lawyer but we refused
it.
So we're good.
All right. So Alan, do you want you want
me to to go from here?
You can do if you like, Wayne, I can um
I I can make a presentation or or you
can give your presentation and then I
can fill in the blanks or add whatever I
want. It's add whatever you'd like. It's
up to you.
I was I was going to give Michael an
opportunity to explain the the plot plan
here that he submitted. Sure. Um yeah,
that's fine. I don't want to interrupt
the uh I don't want to interrupt
interrupt the uh the applicant's
presentation. I just wanted to make that
procedural point just so we're clear
going forward. I apologize for for
breaking up the uh the presentation.
So this plot plan is I literally put it
on my window right over the existing A2
on my property.
And this is my house. This is the
proposed addition. You can say this is
my existing garage, my existing
driveway, the existing
easement that the town put in uh few
years ago for the bus. Um now everything
here is 100% to scale based off of
literally the A2 survey.
He asked uh the original I can't
remember his name. Wayne, what was what
was the guy before you? Jim. Jim. Jim
asked me to add a few things on here.
You know, my leech fields, the square,
um the the footage from my house, uh my
septic. Well, basic things, updated
setbacks because septac setbacks have
changed. the the understandings have
changed since 2002 when my or 2000
September of 2001 my AC was submitted
submitted to the town for building and
uh everything here
is within legal standing and also it
shows how my addition would be
attached to my house making it part of
the principal property.
Um now
essentially Jim had stated that it would
be acceptable at this point just this
point building stages the
whole topographic map you need to be
able to use any of that for building
your foundation
anyways for at least getting this far
it' be okay to present now I understand
I have to go out of my way get a surve
That's that's on it's fine. But if I had
known that the that um Mr. Grants had
had stipulated this, I would have gone
and done this back in February when the
original correspondence was was sent to
Jim and I received.
So I was in the dark until literally two
weeks ago kind
of steamrolled into this
essentially. Um so I had very short time
to be able to find a surveyor and it's
pretty hard to find a surveyor this time
of the year within two weeks. So um I
tried to find the original surveyor who
did my property but he passed away in
2022. We've heard out
of pass away another
company that blocked them out.
Currently, we're trying to find all that
paperwork so we can do a revision
because that's all they'll need to do to
add this to
it. But
currently, so that's this is why this
should be okay enough to get me through
this stage. not to the next one
obviously just this stage um with full
understanding that I need to get
a permit for a actual or a survey a full
survey for what I'm doing I mean you
proceed you can't just build stuff
something I'm not
right it's my understanding that if the
committee commission uh grants
thing then he'll have to continue with
his
application
essentially must correct me but that's
my understanding
I'm sorry I that last bit dropped out.
Um could you repeat it?
That uh essentially that what um Michael
is going through right now is uh trying
to obtain relief from the decision to
deny the permit to build the garage.
Should the commission here uh provide
relief to Michael, he still would have
to jump through the the hoops concerning
an A2 survey and all that good stuff in
order to get the final permit to
construct the garage, which I'm
compliing with. Yeah. Let me um that's
um Is the applicant all done? I don't
want to cut him off.
But I'm I'm okay for now. Okay. Uh this
might be um Wayne, this might be a good
point for me to jump in because I think
there's a couple of things here that I
think I can clarify hopefully and and
maybe it'll help explain this.
So
procedurally, what what this was was an
application for a certificate of zoning
compliance in the Andover Lake Zoning
District. In other
words, this is a administrative type
approval that Mr. Heckler was um
requesting. And basically
uh all that approval would say is that
yes, you meet the dimensional
requirements of the zoning regulations,
you know, the setbacks, the the
coverage, all that sort of thing, so
that he can get a building permit.
And part of the um part of the
requirements for an administrative
permit is a is an A2 survey. And as as
Mark Brance correctly pointed out,
um there was no a A2 survey done. Now,
um I know that the requirement for an A2
survey among zoning comm uh commissions
generally is a requirement that's
sometimes honored more in the breach and
that I know sometimes uh you know that
that that requirement is sometimes
treated with a with a wink and a blink
and a nod. However, in this particular
case, I think Mark was correct that you
really need an A2 survey. If for no
other reason than, you know, if you're
talking about an administrative zoning
permit for a for a shed or a or a
swimming pool, you know, a small
swimming pool, that's one thing. I mean,
we're talking here about a 27 by 39 foot
building that's larger than a lot of
houses to be added to an existing house.
So I I think in this in this particular
case an A2 survey is is would be a
proper thing to require.
But even assuming for a moment that we
had a proper A2 survey here, there
there's a there's a another and I think
more fundamental problem with this
application. And again, it being an
application simply for an administrative
zoning permit. And that is is that we're
talking about a a a quite large building
which even if you don't count even if
you don't count the the upper floor
which I think in this case it's proper
to count the upper floor because the
upper floor is storage. Um Mr. Heckler
said it's not considered living space.
Well, fair enough. But this isn't
intended to be living space. It's
intended to be space in a garage. So I
think it's proper to consider both the
upper and the lower floors as um as
properly counted within the dimensions
of the building. So if you do that,
you're talking about a 1650 roughly
square foot garage. And if you and if
you add the the old garage, which I
guess is going to be connected to this
in some way, you're up to not not
connected physically, but connected as
far as use, you're up to almost 2,200
square ft. So, you've got you've got a
1650 ft garage to be
constructed and other space that's
currently a garage that's being
converted to some sort of space
associated with this business. You're
talking about 2200 square ft. The house
itself is only 1,60025 ft. So, you're
talking about adding space which is
going to be used for a business um
that's larger than the house. So, that
that raises that raises a a big red flag
to me. And the red flag is what you're
talking about here is an accessory use.
I guess an accessory use, you know, um
an accessory use has to be
uh customarily incidental and
subordinate to the principal use. Now,
what what I think Mr. Heckler is
proposing is he basically wants to run
his business out of his house and you
know, and it's and it's a fairly
substantial enterprise. He wants to put
um heavy equipment. I I don't know
exactly what kind of equipment he's
talking about. Uh Wayne and I spoke this
morning. He was talking about a dump
truck and a small excavator, which I
assume would have to be transported on a
trailer. When you talk about an
accessory use, it has to be one, as I
said, subordinate and typically used,
you know, by a residential building.
Now, what do you want? What do I mean by
that? An accessory use could be a
basketball court. An accessory use could
be a swimming pool. Um, your regulations
don't get into specifics of what can and
cannot be a accessory use, but we all
kind of know what they are. A barbecue
pit, a deck. Um, interestingly, a lot of
things that are permitted accessory uses
would not be would not be allowed on a
vacant lot because then all of a sudden
you're not talking about an accessory
use. Let's say, for example, I had this
case in another town. someone had a
piece of vacant property that he owned
and he wanted to put a basketball court
on it for his kids. Well, the problem
was he didn't have a house on the
property and so the basketball court
would would become the principal use of
the property and in that town you could
not have a basketball court on a vacant
piece of property because then it would
become the principal use. And I and I
raised that example just to show the the
difference and the contrast between a
principal use and an accessory use. A
lot of towns only permit one principal
use per parcel of property. And uh in
this case, the principal use is the
residential dwelling. So you can have a
garage as an accessory building of up to
two bays as a as an accessory use. But,
um, you know, we're talking about a a
twocar garage for two cars, two motor
vehicles, two two automobiles, two SUVs,
you know, a pickup truck would be okay,
but that's all. Um, basically if if you
were to approve this application, you
would be basically putting two principal
uses on that lot. A residential
residential home and a and a business
essentially. Now, there
are there are uh ways under your
regulations that you can do that. Um, I
know that there's that there's special
permit and site plan applications that
can be made. I don't know because I
didn't look at that question because
that's not the uh that's not the
situation we have here. But I know there
are ways to to apply for a business use
on a property, but it has to be done by
either a special permit or a site plan
from what little reading I did on those
scenarios. So, you know, the f, you
know, the two problems here are the lack
of the A2 survey, but the more
fundamental problem is that given given
the size of the building and its
intended purpose, it raises the question
of whether it's a proper accessory use
for a residential neighborhood. And that
means that it can't be out of scale with
the rest of the neighborhood as far as
as noise, as far as visual intrusions,
as far as uh you know, anything anything
detrimental to the character of that
residential neighborhood. And I can
think off the top of my head, if you've
got if you've got uh heavy machinery
being backed in and backed out of this
thing, if you've got dump trucks coming
and going, you know, that raises issues
as to whether serious questions as to
whether this is a proper accessory use.
I will say that I agree with Mr. Heckler
on one thing and that is that the
proposed garage is not an accessory
building. It clearly isn't because it's
connected to and it shares at least one
wall with the main residence. So, no
question it's not an accessory building.
But under the under the regulations,
under the application that Mr. Heckler
made, the only way you could approve
this, even if you had a perfect A2
survey, is that this this proposed
construction is an accessory use. And I
and I think
it's, you know,
uh, you would have to go by what's
customarily approved as accessory uses
in the town because you've got a lot of
leeway under the regulations as far as
what constitutes an accessory use. But
in in uh in Mark's conversations and my
conversation with Wayne, this is
something that's clearly out of scale uh
for an accessory use for a residential
property, which is really the
fundamental problem with this. This app
this this application for a certificate
of zoning compliance does not
give it it doesn't give the town under
the planning and zoning commission in
the first instance you know sufficient
input into how this thing would be run
and um you know what kind of conditions
you might want to put on that were they
of a mind to approve it but again I
don't want to go too far down that road
because that's not the situation we're
talking about tonight we're simply
talking about a denied permit for a
certificate of zoning compliance for
what for what I would call an accessory
use and and and I think the
denial under that particular you
know box that we're trying to put it in
the certificate of zoning compliance
accessory use is is not a box that this
thing fits in I mean basically zoning is
a is an inquiry agree to discover what
box do you put a use in. Zoning is about
the use of property. One other thing I
I'll mention too is that I I know Mr.
Heckler talked
about a a hardship. Um you know, he's
concerned about his property
understandably. Uh you know, he doesn't
want to he doesn't want to pay, you
know, expensive storage fees for his
equipment. He's worried about theft.
He's worried about weather effects. that
those are all those are all legitimate
concerns for a business owner. However,
um talking about that stuff kind of
conflates this with an application for a
variance and he didn't apply for a
variance. And frankly, if he did apply
for a variance, you know, claiming those
things as his hardships, I
I'm don't think it would be properly uh
granted to him. Again, that's not the
situation we're in tonight. Uh the
situation we're in tonight is to review
this uh application for a certificate of
zoning compliance. And I think that that
under the circumstances given the size
of the thing, the effective um the
impact the the possible impacts on the
neighborhoods, it's I think Mr. Cassace
was proper in denying it as not
a not a um not a good accessory use.
Thank you. Any questions?
So I
have to
say they clearly that I would never be
doing
anything. Um I attempted to file a home
ad. Um, but it of course the the spaces
were were not big enough for me to be
broad enough with how I needed to
explain it. So, uh, I did write down my
letter, which we're looking at two
separate things. Correct. Correct.
Correct. Um, but he did mention um, Mr.
O did mention that the business is being
used or
the space is being used as a clearly a
enterprise
which I have an office in that house and
I have storage I'm not conducting any
sort of sales we're not conducting any
sort of I'm not selling top soil on my
property not doing anything like that so
there's no actual enterprise being
presented at my property at all. Um
other than
again storing like I switch anyone on
the town. I mean we have plenty of uh we
have plenty
of landers contractors that live around
the lake that are in the lake area that
have barns and whatnot. I'm sure we're
grandfathered in, but I'm not
grandfathered in because anywhere else.
Um, they have full-blown landscaping
companies. Um, I know we have
um a
HVAC right on the
lake. Three car garage side.
He has a mini excavator.
So do I. I mean, he puts it
inside. He hides it, boxes in so that
way nobody steals it. Very
understandable. So
break. It would be the same situation.
Um, will you have any May I ask a
question? Sorry to interrupt you. We
have any non-resident employees coming
to or from the property? So only you
will be transporting your equipment in
and another company. Yep. Yep. I'm a sle
proprietor. I don't I'm not Do you have
any employees? No, I'm not big enough to
have anyone. Um I you know um and that's
really the thing. It's it's it's just
me. I don't have a customer come in my
house. Um I go to them to propose and
obviously I come home write them up on
my computer. It's all my office sort of
filing and keeping files.
So your equipment, so your your major
equipment right now is dump truck,
trailer, excavator, and that's all
currently stored outside on your
property right now.
What if your business
grows? Well, if it broke, then hopefully
I'll be able to afford the actual place
that I have like um maybe buy actual
lot. But as of right now, it's not
reasonable and it can't become that
bigger until because one of the one of
the things in in the zoning regulations
is bringing traffic, extra traffic into
a neighborhood. So, say say this is
granted and hopefully you're successful
and your business grows. How does that
affect your neighborhood as your
business grows and you might have, you
know, a bigger truck, a bigger
excavator, you know, more trucks? I
mean, that could affect the neighborhood
because that's that's part of what this
is about. There's only so much you could
have on property. If I were to get a
triacle, I wouldn't be able to fit in my
property, right? The weight, it just
would sink. It would not be ideal. And I
think in the regular it says you can
only keep one commercial vehicle on
property and it has the storage side.
These are not commercial vehicles.
They're all under commercial vehicles.
Um you don't need something over 2500
GPW to tow that check that back
commercial is 2599.
Yeah. that you do that on I have a
fulltime pickup truck or two
pickup truck and then I have a regular
dump truck that is
under
lab.
Um but other than that I
mean I'm not interested in buying a not
interested in buying a a lowboy 50 foot
trailer and keeping at the house like a
complete
red.
Um, another issue is I I did change the
floor plan to a non if that would
change. There's there's also a on
repairing items. I'm not sure if that
that's refers to like an auto repair
shop or that your
own sure how that anyone that has like a
mini excavator or landscaping equipment
like little lawn mower or buy chainsaws.
You need to be able to repair them. You
need to be able to keep a little
inventory. Yeah, I understand that. But
there is a thing in here says not
involved repairing any regulations.
Yeah. So I'm not sure how it's
not but you know how that obviously
you've got maintain your equipment.
So how that how that okay
and he did point out that I did not
apply for a variance. Um but I believe I
off my head I did fill out the variance
area as well because I did the hardships
in there. You wouldn't need to put the
hardships if you weren't applying for
the variance, but you could only check
one
box. I would have checked both, but
you're not allowed to. Um, I wanted to
not only correct the issues with the
uh the zoning decision on the
regulations that were being used against
as well as obviously
my so
tech but only
I think that also has a time limit on
it. So probably in your best section to
not have applied for the variance yet.
How tall is the proposed garage? There's
a 20 foot
13. Um it's not it's it's not fully
that's the thing is it's not done yet.
It's just proposed. It's not full. Yeah.
We currently get it more detailed. So
yes. Yeah. So
thinking that those things would be
ironed out later. Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah. Because accessory buildings have
to meet a certain standard for building
is a building height. Yeah, it's like
what
33 which this is I believe it was like
26 I want to say but that's again
proposed that's just a a standard pitch
that's not a gamble which could have
been again that's this is just a rough
draft
So,
well, what I would what I would say in
response is just to re-emphasize a
couple of the points I made before.
Um, there are
ways to
accommodate commercial vehicles and a
lot of the other things that uh, Mr.
Heckler wants to do uh, under the zoning
regulations.
However, those those routes involve
either site plan review or special
permit review, which means, of course,
that you can put uh or those the
planning and zoning commission can put
whatever conditions
um and
specifications in its approval, should
it approve it, that you know, can can
kind of control it. Um, you know, in
this case, again, what we're talking
about was a was an application for a
certificate of zoning compliance. And I
I think, you know, for for this
particular application, you're trying to
put a you're trying to put a a square
peg in a round hole. Another point that
attorney Brandt made in um his his email
to Mr. Cassace um was that you know
there wasn't enough
specificity especially as to the the
current garage exactly what was going to
go on there. Um you know attorney Brandt
had questions about well he's going to
repair what's he going to repair as was
noted you're not supposed to repair
repair equipment as as part of a home
business or a home occupation. Um, you
know, those are the kind of things that
can be controlled or that can be
explored in either a site plan or a
special permit application for for these
for these particular facts under this
particular
application. There there's not enough
oversight. And there there's also the
question of whether it even fits even if
you could give it oversight as far as
whether it's you know the appropriate
scale the appropriate um you know level
of intrusion into the neighborhood. So
you know I'm I'm not I I can't stand
before you tonight and say that there's
no way that uh Mr. Heckler could legally
do what he's proposing to do under your
regulations. There may be. I didn't
explore those things with with Wayne
because that's not the question that's
before us. The question that's before us
is whether the
um the the application for a certificate
of zoning compliance was properly
denied. And I think given the totality
of of the facts and you know the the
portions of the regulations that are
relevant, I I think I think the answer
to that question is yes, it was properly
denied.
So
that's that's our opinion.
But that would only apply to an
accessory building, which this is not.
any short, shape or form. It's part of
the principal building. It's not that
accessory
building. It literally says in the
stipulations that an attached building
to the principal building by a covered
walkway or having a wall and part come
with it is considered an integral part
of the principal structure and not an
accessory building. Therefore, it is not
accessory
building. So thatates everything a whole
section
for one of the things the attorney
brought up was accessory use as well.
Section
seven
that's not there. It's in it's back on
the
website section next. Yep. That one.
So remember this is in the Lake
District. So this is now if you go
scroll down please permitted right
there. Right. That's permitted uses in
the Lake
District garage 7 section
70.3 garage accessory use for no more
than two motor vehicles. One dump truck
one pickup truck. Have equipment are not
considered vehicles. They don't have any
sort of plates on
them. A trailer is not a
vehicle. But a trailer doesn't have a
It's not vehicle. Doesn't have I I
understand you just said it's not just
it doesn't have a plane heavy equipment
doesn't have. It's a registered. Yes.
The excavator is not going inside.
Yes.
It's not a vehicle by
any memo. The very last one. The townly
states a motor vehicle as a as the
attorney spoke of a car SUV pickup
truck. That's your typical
this one. No, the one we have at the
bottom. Oh no,
the other ones.
So I have
copies to the board.
And this is actually version two of this
memo apply for
a home occupation. So I revised the memo
to reflect that.
I I revised my original memo to reflect
his application for home occupation
permit which is
still so uh you want to scroll down to
the
discussion I believe as far as the site
plan provided it is concerned
that there's enough information in that
drawing that Mr. Heckler provided to
understand the placement of
the new
structure along with the existing garage
and the existing residence. It does meet
the setback requirements in the Lake
District as far as distance from the
center of road and sidelines of the
property.
Scroll down a little more. Right there.
Well, the very last
sentence, I I believe this proceeding um
should
be should the decision be reversed uh
just paves the way uh to continue with
the planning zoning application that Mr.
Hecker
original that was signed
in his
application um Mr. airport. He stated
that that this landscape equipment
excavator are incidental to his
residential
use. That
he uses the residence as as the home
office. The
appeal is
in my
view largely based upon the economic
u what's what's the word
uh attorney fur econom an economic
hardship oh hardship hardship yeah
in my reading of the relevant
statutes is not hardship is is is not uh
cannot be considered
It's not the sole basis for granting
relief. Yeah. But what basically the way
I understand is your case where you're
creating the
economic
hardship wasn't placed on you by the
town. You're creating by having all this
expensive equipment that needs to be
stored somewhere have business. So
that's the way I view it is the if the
applicant created the hardship, the
financial hardship, then it's not a
hardship. But the problem is the
talent's getting more safe. No, I'm not
I'm not denying. I'm just saying I'm
trying to add clarity to what you were
talking about, which is financial
hardship. And if the applicant creates
the financial hardship, it's not
considered hardship that we take into
consideration.
Yeah. And I would add that more
fundamentally, this isn't an application
for a variance. uh this is a this is an
appeal of a denial of a of a zoning
certificate. So, you know, it's I mean
at some
point, you know, we could have that
conversation should it become relevant,
but um even even leaving aside the
question of what's a proper hardship to
grant a variance and the courts have
gotten a a lot more stringent in the
last seven, eight years or so as to what
constitutes a proper hardship to grant a
variance. It's it's really beside the
point because that's not the question
that's here before us
tonight because this isn't a this isn't
a variance application.
Actually, we're not looking for a unique
hardship. We're only looking for that's
what used to hear. Yeah, I I just added
it just in case it needed to be said.
Yeah. So, this is a bit of a new case
for this board as
well. So, let's
opinion on on this matter is that the
uh application was was it was properly
denied and whether whether or not
there's another path forward I'd be
happy to explore it with with Mr. and
you know council.
So I think as right now I don't believe
that that's part of the consideration
there. Okay. So it would appear that one
of the key things that was talked about
was the size or the
uh if you compare the living structure
compared to the accessory. The accessory
is much larger or out of proportion to
the living structure. Seth my my I when
brought that up I quickly went through
the regulations.
Um I cannot find anything in our
regulations that talks about the size of
accessory structure or nothing
comparison. Mr. Kun talked about that
I'm sure right Mr. Uh Alan, um when you
were talking about the size of the
structure, this structure is compared to
the residence. I don't believe there's
anything in our regulations that
specifies that restricts the size of an
accessory structure per se. I I didn't
find anything either, but to to repeat
something I said a while ago, this
application is not for an accessory
structure. It's for an accessory use
because because the the the new
construction would be integral and and
connected to the the residential
property. So, it's not an accessory
structure. It's not a shed.
Um, you know, a a a separate a separate
building. So, you know, I I think that
the question again, there's a lot of
things that don't apply here. I think
another thing that doesn't apply is the
whole concept of whether or not this is
a proper accessory structure because it
isn't one under the regulations.
It gets back it get it gets back to the
definition of what's an accessory use.
And excuse me if I could just check my
notes here. It's a use customarily
incidental and subordinate to the
principal use. So the res
That's that's the standard that you have
to
apply. And the question is whether a a a
construction that's at at least the the
same size or larger than the house uh
for for the storage of uh either heavy
equipment or u a dump truck is a is a
proper is a
proper accessory use.
Now, I know that motor vehicle uh
something I probably should have
mentioned earlier, I couldn't find a
definition for motor vehicle, but the
regulations do make a distinction
between motor vehicles and commercial
vehicles. And there's there's some
weight limitations and and other things
that apply to commercial vehicles. So I
I even though motor vehicle is not
defined I
think I think it's a fair statement to
make that a motor vehicle even though
it's not defined in the regulations
means the types of vehicles that I I
mentioned earlier and because it talk
the regulations talk about commercial
vehicles
uh you know what what the applicant is
proposing to store there doesn't really
fit into
the definition of motor well into the
concept of motor vehicles under the
regulation which is why I think you know
the accessory garage for for no more
than two motor vehicles isn't a hook to
this
either thing with commercial vehicle
like you said it has to be under a
certain weight that's for anything you
can't have 100,000 pounds going down the
road on it's going to be too heavy for
it so that's why we have state laws I'm
a CDL holder I the DOT hell about this
stuff. Um, you know, when it comes to a
commercial vehicle, you have
to in our regulations here, you have to
abide by it certain way. You can't put
can't just leave it on the side of the
road. you have to leave it in
partic or dirt. um you know guys oil.
You don't want that in your soil. You
know, you don't want that stinger.
You're better off sting your concrete
than you are ruining, you know,
anything. Uh same thing
with things always. I mean, you can't
have a piece of heavy equipment is
anything,000. So, my main weighs 11,000.
is not added, but they still legal
use. I don't want my soil getting
roasted or anyone's so
getting I'd like to be able to keep it
inside and it's nicer when it's on a
piece of concrete to see if it is
dripping something I can fix it right
away so that way I'm not contaminated,
you know, and you can see it. You don't
see it, you know, and
having it out
of out of sight and out of
mind. It's like it's an integrity thing.
Integrity is
what integrity is what's being what's
being done behind closed walls. Like
you you don't
want something sitting out in the open
rotting away making your property your
neighbor's properties lower
value. Hiding it, keeping it a secure
spot. It's not going to make any more
noise inside than it is outside. It's
not going to make any more noise than
dirt bikes going up and down the road or
the bus we have all over the place.
kids. You know, we have a bunch of
muscle cars around here. It's not
anymore. This garage has been my my two
car garage has been a haven for the
local kids. Um, you know, I have my
neighbors work
here who are saying they learn a lot.
They learn a lot about working on cars
and even working on their own stuff.
It's just it's a it's an asset to the
community. I don't know what all are,
but for sure it's as I don't like
looking at all that
crap. And as I would love to go up there
and just blunder and drive away, you
know, but it puts it in the safe spot.
It's got a point. It's safe. It's out of
everyone's way. It's out of their line
of sight.
And realistically, this guy's a great
neighbor. He's taught my kids and my
stepkids so much about just doing their
own thing. Now that's their
hobby. I don't I got I got nothing
but I mean I I I love to I love to
tinker. I mean, you stopped by today. I
was tinkering on I mean I love muscle
cars. I love cars, you know.
So having kids around
know that like not as a business or
anything like that but just as a little
hobby. Um this thing
just it it not only keeps kids of the
neighborhood out of trouble which do all
what we want especially now but you know
I believe it's helping the neighborhood
all my neighbors if they have questions
about stuff or you
know you know they I prepared the road
for us because our our road past my
house is actually private road that the
town doesn't provide any sort of help. I
started that I just dropped all kinds of
money in the
buildings. We had a really bad rain. I
had to come in and make it so they drive
and it didn't do a heck of a lot, but it
helped so they can drive on the road
because the town do anything for them.
And another thing, there's nothing else
going in up
there. Nobody can build anymore anyway.
So all the people around him is what he
wants to do.
But it's a dead end road. It's not like
it's nobody passes by my house just by
chance. They use they literally use the
eent to turn around and go back down the
road.
The most traffic you see is this, you
know, wish I'd been happy
to literally give up about 40 or 50 of
my
properties. It's just been ever since I
moved in, I've been nothing but helpful
and flying with town. I I want nothing
to make this go as smoothly and easily
as possible. That's that's why I've been
just trying to do everything the way
someone wants. I'm not jumping to, you
know, beat anyone out. I'm
literally just asking for a little
assistance on this. You know, I'm new to
this kind of thing. 30 years old. I'm
not, you
know, nuts, some some crazy big, you
know, entrepreneur that, you know, I
don't have any sort of understanding on
this stuff other than what I'm learning
here today, what I've learned through
this whole process. So, you know, I'm
sure there's mistakes I made, but I take
them and I correct. That's it's what
we're here for now and that's what I
plan on doing in the future.
It's only matters concerning personnel.
Yeah. Personnel things that
nature session and then
We have to close the regular session. I
I don't want to cut you guys short.
Yeah. So, is there anything else before
we close session and move into the break
to the
U into the call for the
application hearing? Well, I just wanted
to make sure that all the all the
questions that were asked or need to be
asked were asked and I could answer them
to the best my
ability. There's nothing more to
offer. So again, I believe
that the denial of the certificate
compliance
um was proper. Um, like I stated before,
if there's another path forward, I'd be
more than
willing to to look at
that whether or not this can be done for
special permit application.
already has the application in and also
these
application
forward and so if we deny this tonight
he could still he could uh Attorney Curo
if if this if relief is denied tonight
Mr. Hecker can
still uh presumably uh move forward with
a special permit application. Correct.
If if indeed regulations do
uh allow for
that. Well, I think as a matter Wayne,
jump in here if you disagree, but um you
know, he would yeah, he wouldn't be
precluded from if if it was just a
matter that he hadn't chosen the uh
proper procedure to to proceed. I mean,
generally if
a generally if if a zoning you see in
this case, all it is is an
administrative permit. You're just
saying that an administrative permit
just says, "Yeah, you meet the doning
regs." There aren't typically any
conditions attached or any inquiries
that are made or statement of use or
anything like that. Um, so if if you
were to uphold the denial of the the
zoning permit, you know, I don't think
it would preclude an application, you
know, after, you know, proper, you know,
consultation with Wayne and whether it
makes sense. And
um I it wouldn't preclude him coming
back under a separate procedure where
the planning and zoning commission would
have the opportunity to review it under
all the standards and the regulations
that apply to a special permit or a or
or a uh site plan approval.
So, all all you're voting on tonight is
the is the denial is whether to
um whether to grant or uh deny the
appeal of the zoning of the denial of
the zoning permit.
So, what I'm understanding is
essentially we jump the gun here. Ralph
way too much
information or the zoning portion. So
essentially all I'm asking is just to
get through the zoning part so we could
get to the real you know the reality
here there one of the things hanging up
here as the attorney and and and way
brought up is
whether the use of your your new
garage whether
that's you know whether it's subordinate
to the use of your residence right
you have a residential property. Yeah.
So, if you put this garage on there and
have your equipment and have all that
stuff in there, does it become a a
residential house attached to this
garage, which is why the reason of the
size of the garage becomes an issue, or
is it a garage that happens to be
attached to your house where you store
your where you store your car? And I
understand this. I mean, obviously, it's
again that comes back to like what I'm
using for, right? You know, I'm not
Let's just say um I were a a wood shop
or a woodworker. I'm not
building furniture or or little sheds or
something out of it. I just happen to
live on site. Your work is all done
off. So essentially this storage like
you would have a lawn or you have
anything. It's essentially just the
toys. Well, the storage of commercial
equipment. Yes. It's a little different
than just storage of your lawn mower.
Correct. Correct. Because you're not
you're not used to this stuff. This is
not for use on your properties for use.
Right. Yeah. And of course I I have two
acres so I could be happy on my property
if I didn't have more time where four
hours today. Right. But it's primary use
for your business. And and when we spoke
the first time, I don't think you were
there yet, but I spoke to Jim and it
actually was my primary use was on
property, but I started getting more and
more interest in people using media for
offsite things. And then I had
to make the full up.
So that's where things kind of changed a
little bit. Understanding kind of
changed the
um is it possible for you to say rent?
Probably $10,000 a month. Yes. For
something that is like this. Most people
Yeah. We're talking like $10,000 a
month. And I don't know about you guys,
but that's a lot.
There's a lot and I could build a garage
for that
for 40 years.
Yeah.
Construction.
So, I
mean, it's it's it boils down to that's
why the it came down to um we're talking
about
uh hardship.
$10,000 is a lot for a lot of people and
I get it's an
economical does say does say a hardship
and it doesn't really go into it very
very much the regulations. Yeah, the
state law is unique unique. It means
financial applicance.
this if if this can move forward, it
wouldn't need a back because it needs to
set
back the height requirement that come by
and since it's not a secondary use what
would be the maximum was it ft
and I believe their house is pretty darn
high.
Right
about 40 foot ladder to get up there.
Yeah. I
built a twotory
house would be 12 ft plus the roof plus
the
Everybody in his
garage is based on
It's the use. It's the use. The
customarily incidental and subordinates
depressible use is the basis of denial.
It
doesn't moving forward.
So I see. All right. I think do you have
anything else you want to ask? I don't
want to cut off. Is there anything else
that um attorney would like to ask
before we close the session?
would like to add? No, I'm fine. Wayne,
you good? Yeah, I'm good. Okay. So, at
this point, then I'm going to call this
uh public
uh hearing to a close and we will
continue on with the actual um CBA
meeting. And at this point, what I do
need to do to have a quorum is I need to
seek an alternate tonight, which is the
Excuse me. Are you guys are you guys
going to vote? Are you guys going to
vote on the uh do you do you vote now? I
have to close the original meeting and
go into the actual hearing and u see
Oh, no. What I was asking is um so if if
you're going to make a decision to
either grant the appeal or or deny the
appeal, is that something you typically
vote on? Yes. Yes. Okay. And and and
you're going to proceed to that?
Yes. Okay. Just wanted to make sure.
Uh so the other thing I would just say
to you is we only have a board of five
people. Um you have to have yeses to
move this forward. So, you only have
four people tonight. If you wanted to,
you could always delay action and we
could come back and we could have you
take a bowl of dice that we would have
Dave Huick here who's a full seat. We'd
have five people seated and you don't
have to get four or five instead of four
or four. I'm just throwing that out
there as one of those. That's weird how
that works. Yeah, it's very seclude one
to three. Yeah. Yeah. But It
does. I didn't make those up. Just
regulations. Regulations, right? So, you
know, it's your odds, I guess you could
say, are better. Five four.
Not. Uh, so I'm going to close the
meeting and uh so I'm making a motion to
seat as our alternate tonight. Uh, any
second to that, Fred? Any discussion?
All those in
favor? Okay, great.
Um, so at this point then I'm just going
to reread the motion that is uh or the
application that's uh in front of us.
Um Oh, I'm sorry. I should actually do
that. Is there any additions or changes
to the agenda?
A special meeting. I don't know if
there's actually Yeah, would be.
Although it's on the agenda.
your bags and public speak. So really
had our public speak and I think you
really had your chance at public speak
unless there's anything else you want to
say. Good. Thank you. Good. So we will
uh again we're discussing the
application 202502 Michael Heckler 71
Basal road an annivers from a denial of
a zoning permit by the ann zoning agent
facilities after was denied a zoning
permit to construct a two-car garage
with storage of landscape equipment a
dump truck and excavator attached to a
dwelling and existing twocar garage
that's proposed to be converted into a
workshop
base. Um, so at this time I will
entertain a motion.
only by do I have a second on
that second by Fred um
discussion I do think and I support your
idea and you know running storing your
equipment somewhere I'm fully on board
with
that I just the law and the and the
argument by our zoning agent. I think
they're right on and I think gota got to
find some other way way to do this. You
know the accessory use of the building
the subordinate it I don't think it's no
longer subordinate to the residential
use of the property the way we want it.
Um and I do have some concerns about the
residential nature of the neighborhood
and I know there
large vehicles going through there.
But
there all I would ask is
obviously and I think you get that from
Wayne. Um and and I I agree with most of
your arguments as well the truth through
the line with the exception of the one
piece which is subordinate use. Um so is
there any discussion? Yeah, we have to
follow the law. Yeah. No, and getting
past that. It's not a shut down to your
your process. So, by and that's what
kind of help my
decision. It's helping me make my
decision too because it doesn't stop
your process there. So, any other
discussion? Definitely.
Yeah. Then in that case I'll call the co
the vote and all those in favor of
motion to deny say I. I. All those
opposing. If so again good luck. I wish
you best luck. I do agree with
everything you really got to say about
as far as the building you know the
leaking. Um I know a lot of people have
equipment too and good friend of mine
worked at my house the other day. of
those tons of Pollocks just filling all
the way. I I get it and I wish you the
best of luck cuz I I really do. But I
think I'd have to go with our lawyer and
our zoning agents. Remember, he's not
your lawyer. He's not your lawyer. He's
the town lawyer in this case.
And that I could have my own
lawyer anyways. But I do. Yes. I don't
think
I think you changes to the application
will make this a lot smoother for you.
And do you have
Yes. So in that case then the next uh
piece would Yeah. Thank you Mr. Um,
appreciate your help tonight. Oh, glad
to do it. Hope I hope I filled in
properly for Mark. He's got some big
shoes to fill.
Okay. Okay.
Thank you. So, we're just moving on to
the to the regular mundane business.
Okay. I'll I'll bow out. Thanks a lot,
folks.
And good and good luck, Mr. Heckler.
Uh, is there any old business? Uh the
only business I see is vacies on we
really don't have a vacancy right now.
We
have doesn't come and I didn't get a
chance to contact that particular
person on that
person. Uh so that's the
only app. Thank you. Um, so at this time
I I need to work on whether or
not signature that person.
Yeah,
I really don't know Evo's situation
right now. I haven't seen him quite a
while. So um
in over a year I know that at least. So
I'm going to pursue um Colin Elo. I just
been busy. So she saw Carol. He was a
Carol. I saw him. That's what I was
going to say. I basically saw him and I
I could be in and out to go party. Oh, I
got you.
Wow. Uh so then I would like to adopt
the minutes. I wonder can we do that
with just three people? I think we can.
Right. So um I know we review those
minutes I have and Fred from the January
meeting. Um I would make entertain a
motion to uh approve the minutes that
I'll make to approve
and any
discussion. All those favor. So the
minutes of Virginia meeting have been
approved.
She would have to
and then uh miscellaneous. I don't have
any miscellaneous business. I would
obtain a motion
to
motion a second.
All right. Any discussions? All those
favoring
people. I had a hard time understanding
until
Yes. very close to and he pointed out
again. It's it's the uh